Today's video is brought to you by manscape.com the premium brand for men's
grooming and hygiene products. If you watch my channel for a while,
you know that I appreciate scaps product line,
and this is a particularly exciting time because manscape has actually just
released their fourth generation trimmer,
the all new Lama 4.0 with feedback from millions of customers across
the globe.
The landscape team has engineered the next generation of growing and body
trimmers by focusing on intelligent functionality. So this,
as I say is the Lamur 4.0,
it's got these advanced ceramic blades right there at the top.
And there's something called skin safe technology, which believe me,
where this is designed to shape.
You do want something called skin safe technology, Nicks,
and cuts down below are just bad times.
You turn it on BU off it goes. Boom.
And then I just say goodbye to some arm hair.
It's cordless, it's waterproof. So you can trim in the shower.
It's super convenient. Also when it comes to charging this,
isn't a slouch like other trimmers. It's not gonna die every five minutes.
Indeed. You can get 90 minutes of charging from a full charge.
And how do you charge? Well it's wards proof.
So it's wireless boom slotted in there, like an electric toothbrush.
You do need to plug in this bottom part,
but that is very easy enough through this port in the back, easy peasy.
So star looking good from head to toe with no pair of stones left unearned join
more than two in men, world. Why, who trust?
Manscaped go to manscape.com/biographics and get 20% off plus
free international shipping. Again manscape.com/biographics link below.
So do we really need an introduction for Pavlo Picasso?
It is difficult to argue against the idea that he was the most important
influential and recognizable artist of the 20th century in today's biographics.
We will explore the turning points of his career and the salient events of his
private life.
Many of these events were controversial to save the least and would have dire
consequences for those lucky enough or unlucky enough to be close to the
painter, but we have nine decades to cover.
So let's dip our brushes and get right into it.
It was the 25th of October, 1881 in Malaga and EUC, Southern Spain,
local painter arts sea, true, a museum curator,
hos Jose Ruiz Blasco and his wife,
Maria Picasso Lopez welcomes their firstborn trials.
This baby would later sign his masterpiece as simply as Picasso,
but he was christened as Pablo di hos Jose Francisco to Paula,
Juan Neen,
Maria de Los Reio Sapriano de Andina Trinidad Ru as
Picato. Oh my God. That was an insane mouthful.
And I'm sure I destroyed the pronunciation on it with a name like that.
We may consider his birth certificate as his first work of art.
Many would follow from an early age.
Boy PLO was introduced to art by his father,
a good teacher with great technical knowledge.
Picasso would later acknowledge the strong influence that his mother and aunt
had on him. His mother, Maria in particular,
would boost ego telling him things like when you grow up, if you are a soldier,
you'll become general. If you are a priest, you'll become Pope.
The and feminine influence on PLO have led some biographers to infer an eatable
complex and a strong antagonism towards his father.
But actually Picasso always respected his father,
Jose and acknowledged his teachings and influence.
He would later say every time my draw a man automatically, I think of my father,
as far as I am concerned, the man is Don Jose.
And that will be so as long as I live, as Pablo grew up,
his father realized his incredible talent.
Sometimes asking the boy to finish his paintings for him.
PLO would also create his own works of art at the time,
still inspired by classic conventional and academic art,
but he already showed a keynote I for certain subjects that would reemerge in
later life bull fighting. For example, by 1891,
the Rus Picassos were not doing great.
Financially and PLU had been joined by younger sisters conception and Lola,
and just went on. Jose could do with some extra money.
The municipality of Malaga at shut down the museum that he was working at dad
was suddenly jobless.
So he relocated the entire family to LA on the Northwestern coast of
Spain. There,
he was offered a new job as a drawing teacher with PLO was one of his students
at the age of 14 young Ruez Picasso was painting oil paintings of family,
friends, but also subjects that were more on the fringes of society.
The celebration and rep of mists would be another recurring scene in
Picasso's career worth mentioning for this period,
the old fisherman and the barefoot girl. Then in 1895,
the family experienced a tragedy daughter, conception, knowns, Cita,
contracted diptheria. Pablo made a pact with got,
he would renounce painting if he let KTA. So vibe,
unfortunately she died according to biographer, John Richardson, this left day,
profound and lasting sense of guilt in PLOS psyche.
After the tragedy family moved again. This time to Barcelona here,
Don Jose would be teaching at Lalo the most prominent local art school.
The move was a godsend for PLO. Barcelona was a thrill.
I think cultural center influenced by autistic innovators that emanated from
Paris. Again, PLO enrolled in his father's school,
impressing other teachers and examiners with his maturing techniques in 1896,
PLO started to attract the attention of the press and prize juries,
thanks to his canvases science and charity.
And first communion by depicting this Catholic right passage PLO marked his
own symbolic transition from childhood to adulthood,
from students to future Maro in the Autum of 1897 PLO left
Barcelo to study at the Royal academy of San Fernando in Madrid.
This was a great opportunity,
but he disliked the stuffy curriculum and preferred to spend hours at the prodo
museum admiring the masters, his poor attendance record angered Don ho,
Jose who decided to cut Pablo's allowance.
The young painters spent a miserable winter in Madrid.
He was cold bill and painless. A friends. Man, Polaris came to the rescue,
inviting him to spend eight months native village in Catalonia Horter air, bro.
This was a small town on the mountains,
geographically and culturally far removed from the Bartel of Madrids and
Barcelona. That PLO loved so much.
And yet the months in Horter were a crucial transformative moments.
Another right of passage PLO would later often say everything.
I know I learned in PLAR village in H PLO learns how to harvest
tan grapes, how to sheer sheep and slaughter of pigs.
He connected with nature and the traditions of rural Catalonia.
He removed himself from civilizations.
He and man retired for weeks at a cave there. Pablo honed his skills,
sketching and painting the landscapes and the local people in February 18, 19,
he had regained his health and his energy.
He was going to return to Barcelona no longer as a student, but as an artist,
ready to take on the world
Back in Barcelona.
Pad's favorite horns became the Tavern ELs Qura GATS saw the four cats.
This cafe was modeled after the famous per Parisian cabaret lair,
microcosm of young and daring intellectuals and artists PLO stood out thanks to
his charisma and energy soon, making friends with painter,
Carl Casa gamers and poet, James Sabars Pau began to make a name for himself,
but that name wasn't PLO. It was Picasso.
His cattle and friends decide did that.
His father's surname Ruiz was too commonplace for such an original character.
His mothers instead had an exotic ring,
which suited the young artist in February, 1900, the 18 year old PICA.
So exhibited 150 works at the four cats.
It was such a success that several drawings were published and one painting.
Last moments was chosen for the universal ex in Paris. After this success,
Picasso decided to move to Paris after all.
That's where the real art was at in October of 1900 Picasso and his friend Casso
game has moved into a studio in Maass where they drank life to the DRS.
They frequented artists, dancers, cafes, museums,
and Townville reput Picasso fell in love with tooo.
The Trek Ingar found a good client in an art dealer in Pedro Manak,
Carl Case, a game as meanwhile, fell in love with a young lady,
Laura Gar Gallo known as Jermaine Jermaine,
eventually rejected Carl's who may have already been suffering from depression
on February the 17th,
1901 Picas was back in Barcelona when he received Daron news,
cuz a gamers had tried to shoot germane. Mr.
And later turned the gun on himself and Picasso was deeply shocked in 1901.
He dedicated three paintings to his friend,
the most famous one being the death of Casa gamers,
a large candle on the right hand side,
illuminates the background in strong hu of red, orange, yellow,
and green in sharp contrast.
The face of Gar and the foreground is tinted and pale blues and greens.
In Picasso's own words,
the death of his friend initiated what became known as his blue period.
This is when he painted almost in monogram, favoring shades of blue and blue,
green only occasionally using other colors.
The themes are also subtly blue or permeated by a sense of sadness. Uh,
desolation and depression.
Typical subjects of the blue period include prisoners,
beggars or traveling performers like the old guitarist from 1903.
The painting gives Picasso the occasion to celebrate the downtrodden of society.
But the old blind musician and his angular posture are also a homage to on a
Picasso's favorite O Greco. After the death of cast gamers,
Picasso returned to Paris in may of 1901.
He lived briefly in his friend's old apartments and even had a short
relationship with Jermaine between 1901 and 1904.
The painter traveled back and forth between Paris and Spain,
further developing his style and technique perhaps influenced by his friends and
poet. Max, Jacob, the Casos are drifted away from reality.
Instead he tried to express the subjective and spiritual experiences of what he
was living during another period of financial hardship.
The Caso could not afford oil paint yet to resort,
to drawing only which refined his technique and made him pay greater attention
to space and anatomy. Finally,
after settling in Paris for good in April of 1904,
the Caso was about to shed his old blue skin and enter a new period
tinted in rose.
The rose period covers Picasso's activity from 1904 to 1906,
the cold and somber blues gradually gave way to a warmer palette.
Dominat by ping orange and red,
the subject Speare less desperate than those in the blue period,
but still had an air ofensive melancholy.
They were often circus troops or street urchins.
So frequenters the battle lair building hosting dozens of small artists
studios. One of them is the boy with a pipe portrayed in 1905.
And the battle Picasso met and fell in love with a model fer and Olivia who
did not find him particularly seductive even still.
She could not deny that the inner fire that you felt in him gave off a kind of
magnetism. The two began an affair and fer ends became the painters muse,
heated her, but adoration came with darker shade,
possessiveness and jealousy.
Picasso insisted that further ends give up modeling.
And when she expressed a desire to pains,
Pueblo dismissed her aspiration saying that women should not tres into male
territory. Every time Picasso left their apartment,
he locked her inside and took away the key. He agreed to give her a key.
Only when she almost died in a house far,
it was one of the earliest signs that Picasso struggled to maintain normal,
healthy relationships with women artistically though,
Picasso was finding new Heights, critics, collectors,
and other artists all took notice of the rose period.
Artworks Picasso made influential friends,
such as writer and art patron Gerr Stein, poet, Gillam, Aire writers,
Jean and Francis Scott Fitzgerald,
as his popularity grew Picasso was ready to shed his new skin and enter a new
period, which would eventually lead him to cubism from autumn 1905 to autumn of
1906.
The painter absorbed a string of influences that would ultimately show shape is
remaining work.
Changing the art world forever Picasso began studying the work of Paul Saan
absorbing his concept that the artists should capture the process rather than
the results of vision.
This allowed artists to depict multiple angles of the same object at once free
from the constraints of one point perspective. Then in the summer of 1906,
Picasso and financed took a trip to Gool and Catalonia here,
Pablo took to carving wood and sculptures,
which influenced his later depiction of the human face. Finally,
after returning to Paris,
the painter visited exhibitions of prehistoric Spanish sculpture,
as well as African and oceanic masks.
All of these influences can be seen in his portrait of Gertrude Stein of 1906,
in which Picasso red, please simplified her face into a stylized mask.
It could be said that this is when Pablo stopped painting what he saw and
started painting what he thought the influences of the past months erupted into
a watershed work of art, the Deel AOR, or the young women of a,
The original title of the brothel of avenue in reference to a street and
Barcelona known for prostitution, not the French town. So yes,
there was absolutely no mystery on these young ladies professional status that
explains the bold and solicitors gaze of the five women with a noted
undercurrent of sexual tension, painting shocked Picasso's friends and critics,
not only for its theme, but especially for the technique that he used.
He distorted the body of the models,
challenging the traditional idealization of female beauty. Moreover,
he emitted perspective. There is no vanishing point,
nowhere for the eye to escape, no way to avoid the young women in their glance.
The launch canvas was the turning point away from the African or primitive
period entered into cubism.
Picasso developed this style in partnership with painter, George brag,
both influenced by Saan the two sliced the pictorial space,
attempting to see all angles at once.
They ditched scale and perspective shapes were simplified into blocks.
They painted the analysis us of a form instead of its appear.
They also introduced the technique of collage by embedding found objects or even
trash into their work.
They performed an unprecedented synthesis combining everyday chaos into the
beauty of art. Pablo's art started selling well and in the Autum of 1909,
he and finance were able to move into a proper apartment together. Years later,
just when his fame was soaring PLO dumped his muse beginning an affair with
model Eva Goel. The paintings she inspired are marked by the words Maly.
My beautiful fame brought some unwanted attention to when Theona Lisa was stolen
from the Louv in August, 1911, poet, Gillam,
Aire and Picasso were celebrity suspects. Picasso was innocent. Of course,
although he confessed to buying Iberian statue S PED from the Lou almost exactly
three years later, poller would go through a much worse ordeal as world war.
I broke out. He was called to arms the same fate,
but felt many in Picasso's circle, but not him as a citizen of, for Spain.
He was under no obligation to serve all he suffered was solitude and melancholy
made worse in December of 1915, when Eva died of tuberculosis,
a depressed Picasso was rescued by Jean cocktail in the March of 1916,
he involved the painter in parade show of ballet Rus,
which was a troop led by ballet and Presario.
So 11 Picazo designed stage decor and masks for the dancers.
All in Cubist style, even got to tour with the troop.
Bob visiting Rome Pompe in Naples in 1917,
he absorbed the influence of ancient classical art. At the same time,
he courted one of the dancers,
Ukrainian Olgo Cockle over not one to move slow Picasso and Olgo married one
year later. And she, he became his leading muse,
inspiring someone hundred and 40 works of art that belonged to his next phase.
The classic period in the first works.
Olga is portrayed as a delicate in melancholic beauty later,
she morphs into a disfigured threatening presence,
but she was not the monster in this story over the course of their marriage.
Picasso had several affairs, physically assaulted IANS even,
and kept her sedated when it was convenient for him in November of 1921,
Picasso dumped her just when she was pregnant with the first child PLO,
Picasso and Olga tried to reconcile. But in 1927,
he started in new affair just when August's health was deteriorating due to
cancer. The new mistres was 17 year old, Marie three's Walter.
He had met her by total chance outside department in store captivated by her
beauty, the painter grabs the girl by her arm and said, I am Picasso.
You and I are going to do great things together. What they did together was,
well, you can use your imagination on that one.
Their relationship was passionate and intensely sexual preferably with as
sadistic element to it.
It appears that Maria Reese was at times fight of having sex with Picasso who
enjoyed seeing a cry.
This type of relationship permeated works like figures at the seaside of 1931.
The canvas is full of sexual symbols, but there is a threatening element to it.
Stylistically figures also portrays the influence of the surrealist movement in
Picasso's friendship with Salvador Darley on September the fifth,
1935 gave birth to Picasso's daughter Meyer,
who he would portray frequently for the rest of his life.
The couple instead split shortly afterwards,
occasionally reigniting their affair. Many years later in 1977, Marie three,
Walter hung herself. Another relationship concluded over the summer of 1935.
This is when Olga left PLO. Good. Although he never conceded a divorce,
their marriage of a ended only on February the 11th, 1955,
when she died of cancer, 1935 was a troubled year in general.
Picasso had been going through a creative block once a darling of the press and
the Avantgarde circles. He was now facing negative reviews.
The master was settling into a pattern.
He needed to enter a new period to revitalize his art and to enter a new period.
He was going to need a new muse,
Quite promptly. A new muse came right along poet,
painter and photographer Henry at Theo or, or Markovich,
better known as Dora ma.
She was a Picasso side from 1936 to 1943,
but the inspiration for Picasso's best known work would not come from love.
But from tragedy on July the 18th, 1936, the Spanish civil war broke out.
The conflict opposed to the Republican government was a military insurgency.
The Bando.
Now the officers were initially led by general San Hua and later by
general Franco who secured military help from fascist,
literally and Nazi Germany in 1937,
the Republican government asked Picasso to paint a mural for the Spanish
pavilion at the Paris universal exposition.
The painter chose the subject after hearing the news from gr Republican
stronghold in country in Norman, Spain on April the 26th,
19 37 45, Italian and German planes, carpet bombed and strayed Greca.
They destroyed 70% of the town and Guild or wounded 1,600 civilians,
which was a third of the population.
This was the first instance of large scale bombing used against a civilian
target and Oman of the impending horrors of the near future.
The Caso denounced the massacre by painting a monumental canvas,
3.5 meters tall and 7.8 meters white.
He painted quickly to meet the deadline of the exhibition.
Dora Mars photos documented the process,
providing some insight into how Picasso changed his mind several times on the
composition of the canvas,
even down so that the choice of colors halfway through the process,
perhaps inspired by Dora zone, black and white photos.
The cast decided to adopt an almost monocratic palette,
black dark blue and white.
Another pseudo improvised element is the head of the horse at the center of the
canvas, taken together with the bull on the left.
These animals represent the most dominant elements.
The horse represents the suffering of the people of Gran while the bull Embodi
brutality and darkness GCA helped to further cement Picasso's reputation
worldwide.
He was even honored with a large exhibition new York's MoMA in 1939,
when the German army occupied Paris in June of 1940 Picasso benefited in part
from his international standing,
he was clearly an antifascist and producer of degenerate R arts,
but the occupational authorities allowed him to continue to work.
Sometimes German officials would try to offer him extra privileges sometimes as
simple as extra coal or food rations, naturally,
they were expecting some works of art in exchange,
but the cast ever accepted these exchanges,
all they ever gave these officials were postcards of gua to be kept as a
souvenir during the occupation year,
as his work reflected the grim reality of the period in paintings like seated
women subject matter focused on the private introspective sphere,
the colors are dull. The shapes aggressive,
the mood claustrophobic Picasso also expressed himself through sculpture with
the best example, being man with a lamb,
which has been interpreted both as a symbol of suffering under German,
yo and hope for impending liberation
In may of 1943, Picasso was ready for another transition in his personal life.
He met the you aspiring pains. Uh, Fran was while still living with Dora.
Occasionally he still saw his former lover Marie through his Walter.
He cut ties with both Walter and do and ordered start a new relationship with
Gallo, which would almost last 10 years.
The couple had two children clawed in 1947 and Palo in 1949.
But their affair was plague by infidelity and emotional abuse.
Picasso explained very clearly to Fran was that for him,
there are only two kinds of women,
goddesses and doormats Gillo was not willing to become a doormat.
So she instead became the only woman to ever leave Picasso in 1953,
she later published memoir on their life together,
revealing some of the artists nears and darker traits.
Picasso also vaccinated between bouts of depression, uncontrollable, temperance,
absolute sadism, which he expressed in the form of cruel pranks.
He also had a tendency to remade obsessively on single ideas or topics and
maintained compulsive rituals. For example, every morning,
he had a recite mentally a list of his closest friends.
One day he forgot to include his friends. Maurice ran later in that day,
he learned of his unexpected death and was deeply perturbed.
This episode shows how as a balance to Picasso's myriad of negative traits,
he could care deeply about others, friends, certain family members,
and the general downtrodden of society.
As a result of his relationship with Gillo, who was a communist sympathizer,
Picasso shifted decidedly to the left. In fact,
after the end of the German occupation,
he for formally joins the French communist party. In the following years,
he painted party posters and a portrait of Stalin.
He accepted Thelen and peace prize in 1950 and attracted the attention of us
authorities with massacre in Korea. This 1951 canvas was a commentary on us,
atrocities committed against north Korean civilians.
Eventually Picasso came under FBI scrutiny who suspected him of spying on behalf
of the USSR,
the politics were not the major concern of the mystery who is now in his
seventies.
He had started yet another new relationship with a lady who had become his final
love and muse Jacqueline rock 47 years as junior.
The two would marry in 1961,
and Jacqueline would be portrayed more than 70 times by the aging painter
marking by a far, the most productive years of his long career.
Picasso had entered a period of frenzied activity dedicated to revisiting and
recreating works by early masters that he had marched starting in 1957.
He produced 58 works in which he reinterpreted less mens,
a 17th century masterpiece by da que from 1959 to
1961 applied the same approach to on the by Mennet the series inspired by
the impressionist consists of 140 drawings,
27 paintings at four linoleum cuts during the 1960s.
Picasso's most recurring theme was the female nude.
It was as if approaching death,
the old master wanted to delay as much as possible.
The threats of decay and impotence such a vast amount of work required peace and
quiet,
which PLO and Jacqueline sought by moving to the secluded shadow Tove nag
in Southern France,
while there Jacqueline would make sure on the master's time was protected,
barring even his eldest son PLO from visiting him in 19 6,
4 Picasso himself extended the veto to his other children, clawed and PLO.
The reason was the publication of his former lover.
Fran SWO AFA mentioned memoir life with Picasso Picasso sued his former lover
and tried to prevent the publication of the work.
But the court involved concluded that this work far from defaming the great
painter, reveals him as a man of astonishing interior richness and an extremely
attractive figure.
PLO Ruiz Picasso died on April the eighth of 1973,
age 91 Jacquelyn spent the night next to his body, laid out on a Mo of snow.
Picasso was a colosus of the art world.
The personification of genius life spans nine decades and his vision influenced
the creation of some of the most important movements in modern art.
The engine that propelled his work were his passions,
the lessons from the old masters politics society,
and most of all his MUEs and yet that same passionate art that could create so
easily and could elevate those rounds. Him could destroy just as easily.
Olga Pablo's first wife was abused and neglected while ill with cancer.
Marie threes, Walter ultimately took her own life.
And so did Jacqueline rock after years of alcoholism and depression,
Dora Mar was also abused, eventually suffering a mental breakdown.
Picasso seemed to have a deleterious influence on blood relatives too.
His son blow died an alcoholic after years of depression powers son PTO
poisoned himself with a bottle of bleach and he was barred from his
grandfather's funeral.
So while the world rightfully remembers him as the master painter of the 20th
century and the founder of cubism. So to,
was he OUS eccentric slowly scraping the life off the many friend
and family members in his orbits, the Casos mu may have given him inspiration,
but that transaction rarely came without personal cost.
Such was the nature of a complex artistic visionary.
As Polito system arena described it. He submitted them to his animal, sexuality,
tamed them, but which them ingested them and crushed them into his canvas.
After he had spent many nights extracting their essence,
once they were bled dry, he would dispose of them.
So I hope you found that video. Interesting. If you did,
please do hit that thumbs up bottom below. Don't forget a subscribe.
Please do check it off. Fantastic sponsor.
Manscape I'm Linky do hello and thank you for watching.